# 420-921-VA Database

To do individually or in teams of **2 students maximum.**

## Project: Modelling and creating a database

You have to model and create a database on the topic of your choice. It should
be a large enough database (at least 8 tables plus the tables coming from the
many-many relationships), significantly different from the databases covered in
this course (for example, don't take the `pagila` DB, and change `film`
to `book`). To help you choose a topic, you could, for example, think about a
web site you would like to create, and model the database you would need to
support this website. Or it could be a database backing a mobile application, a
game, ... You don't need of course to implement the website or the application,
you only need the database that could be used in such a project.

### Project Proposal Submission: Sunday, May 28 (before midnight)

You have to submit a Markdown file (extension `.md`), or a PDF file, containing
the following information about your planned project:

1. The team members, including their names and student IDs.
2. The title of your project
3. A description of the application in which your database would be used. You
   don't need to design the application, but describe what it would be used for,
   and the basic features of this application. You can provide links to similar
   existing applications.
4. An overview of the data you expect to have in the database, and their
   connections to the application. Don't design the database at this point, just
   describe in words, in general terms, the data you think will be necessary in
   the database.

### Final Project Submission: Thursday, June 22 (before midnight)

To do individually or in teams of **2 students maximum.**

**Files to submit**: a `zip` file containing all the files mentioned below.

### Part A: ER modelling

Create a logical ERD to represent your database.

You need to submit 3 files for this part:

- `logical_1234567_1234568.drawio`: your ER diagram, if you use Drawio or
  diagrams.net to draw your diagram; replace `1234567` by the student number of
  the first team member, and `1234568` by the student number of the second team
  member (if any)
    - if you use another software, replace the extension by the appropriate one
    - if you want to use PlantUML, then put your diagram in a Markdown file (
      extension `.md`), and follow the same naming convention
- `logical_1234567_1234568.png`: your diagram exported to a `.png` image file
- `README.md`: a *Markdown* file containing the following
    - name and student number of each team member
    - general description of the database
        - the context in which the dadftabase will be used (web site,
          application, ...), including a short description of
          this context
        - overview of the tables in the DB (**don't** give an exhaustive list of
          tables and attributes, but give instead
          the general idea)
    - if necessary: explain non-obvious relationships, or non-obvious
      cardinalities, or any other non-obvious decisions
      made while modelling the DB
    - this file is essentially an updated version of your project proposal

### Part B: Creating the database (10 points)

Convert your logical ERD into a physical ERD, and write your `create table`
statements for all your tables. Choose
good data types for your attributes, and add the necessary
constraints ( `not null`, primary keys, foreign keys, `check`
, `default`, ...).

Insert some data in your tables. There's no exact number of rows to insert, but
there should be enough data to test some
queries that could be used in an application that would be developed later on.

You need to submit 5 files for this part:

- `physical_1234567_1234568.drawio`: as discussed above, but for the physical
  ERD
- `physical_1234567_1234568.png`: as discussed above, but for the physical ERD
- `create_1234567_1234568.sql`: contains the `create table` statements, and some
  other statements such
  as `set search_path`, `create schema`, `drop table`, ... but no `insert`
  or `update`
- `insert_1234567_1234568.sql`: contains the `insert` statements, and maybe some
  other statements such
  as `set search_path`, `update`...
- `datagrip_1234567_1234568.png`: the diagram generated by datagrip for your
  database

### Part C: Queries (5 points)

Write at least 5 queries that could be used in an application based on your DB.
These queries should not be too simple
(no `select * from customers` for example). The queries should be realistic and
varied (
no `select * from customers where name like 'A%'` followed
by `select * from customers where name like 'B%'`). The
queries should be complicated enough, they should contain some `join`s
and/or `group by`s and/or sub-queries.

You need to submit 1 file for this part:

- `select_1234567_1234568.sql` : contains your queries, properly documented with
  a comment preceding each query,
  describing the query and how/where it could be used

### Part D: Presentation (10 points)

You have to present your project. The presentations will not be done live during
class time.
Instead, you will have to record your presentation, and share it with the
teacher. You can record your presentation with
zoom, or any other software allowing to record your screen and your voice, such
as OBS studio for example.

Ideally, to keep the size of your submission small, you should upload your video
on some platform (Vimeo, Youtube, ...),
and share a private link with the teacher. Put your link in the `README.md`
file, near the top, after your name. Another
option is to upload your video to your Vanier OneDrive storage, then share your
video with the teacher (email:
rinfretd@vaniercollege.qc.ca). If these are not possible for you, then you can
include your video (probably as a mp4
file, or some other common format) inside your `zip` file.

Your presentation should be around 10 to 15 minutes long. It should not be more
than 20 minutes. You don't need to
prepare slides (but you can use slides if you want). It should start by giving
an overview of your DB, how or where it
would be used (a bit like in your `README.md` file), then you can present your
ER diagram. You don't need to mention
every little detail, such as mentioning every attribute. You should focus
instead of the entities and their
relationships, including their cardinalities. Then you should go quickly through
the DB creation part, focusing more on
the constraints you added (don't read all the attributes and their data types,
it would take too long). Finally, you
should show the execution of your queries on the DB and explain them briefly.
